Last week, I was looking for some
software to solve a very specific
problem. Lo and behold, I found this
great app for 10 bucks. But as a Vibe
engineer, I didn't pay for it. Instead,
I spent 3 days, $500 in claude credits,
and missed my kids' baseball game over
the weekend to build a crappier version
from scratch. Developers are living in
weird times as some of us are becoming
less productive and ditching AI
altogether. Like the streamer coding
garden just completely destroyed the
grift in this video.
>> And it's not fun. It's not fun at all.
But many others are going allin and
seeing productivity gains like never
before. Every employee at multi-trillion
dollar company Nvidia is now AI enabled.
>> Every one of our engineers 100% is now
assisted by AI coders and our
productivity has gone up incredibly.
>> The truth is that AI does suck. It's
like gambling. When you prompt it and
the code actually works, you feel that
indescribable rush of dopamine.
>> I'm coming day and night. I mean, it's
terrific. But eventually your prompt
won't work and this leads to a vicious
cycle that I like to call the prompt
treadmill of hell where you keep burning
through credits but never actually get
what you need. Despite that drawback,
there are ways to make AI coding more
reliable and quasi deterministic thanks
to the power of model context protocol
servers. In today's video, we'll look at
seven MCP servers every dev needs to
know about to make AI coding suck less.
It is October 14th, 2025, and you're
watching the code report. I think it's
safe to say that the majority of
programmers are now using AI in some
capacity, but very few are using it to
its full potential. If you don't already
have a couple of MCP servers hooked up
to claude code, cursor, open code, or
whatever you prefer, you're falling
behind and you're not going to make it.
But what even is a model context
protocol server? Well, in one sentence,
it's a standardized way for your coding
agent to talk to external systems. That
could be an app running on your local
machine. It could be a remote server
that runs your code. or it could be a
thirdparty API. To understand its full
potential, let's look at some examples.
On this channel, I've complained
endlessly about AI not being able to
generate proper spelt 5 code. Well,
luckily, just a few days ago, that
problem has been solved thanks to the
release of the spelt MCP server. All you
have to do is install this bad boy in
your favorite coding tool, like I'm
using Claude Code here. And now, instead
of going in blind, you can start a
prompt with /spelt. This will
automatically tell Claude how to get the
right spelt documentation. And more
importantly, use the spelt autofixer.
It'll perform a static analysis on the
code and delopify it when the LLM
hallucinates random ReactJS code in your
project. But if you're a front-end
developer, the most time-conuming task
is implementing your designer's Figma
files into actual code. Well, not
anymore. The Figma MCP server allows you
to connect your local Figma app on the
desktop or in the cloud. It'll pull a
design file and automatically implement
it in HTML and CSS. You can even
generate React components, use Tailwind,
or build iOS UI elements using Figma's
more reliable tooling. Pretty cool. But
what if you're building something like a
payment system with a third-party API?
If this is something you really can't
afford to screw up, well, Stripe and
many other APIs now have an MCP server
that can fetch documentation for the
exact API version you're using. Not only
that, but it has a long list of tools
you can use to access live data in
Stripe, opening the door to all sorts of
possibilities, like accidentally
refunding 10,000 customers with a single
prompt. Now, even if you leverage these
tools, your code is still probably going
to break in unexpected ways at runtime.
If you use a monitoring tool like
Sentry, you can access all of the issues
and errors your AI assistant missed
before deploying. Instead of trying to
understand the slop you rolled out a few
minutes ago, you just tell it to query
the Sentry issues and fix them on the
fly. That's helpful, but not all runtime
issues can be caught. At other times, it
might be the QA guy who worked at
Blizzard for 7 years who assigns you a
Jira ticket to fix some pointless edge
case he found, in which case you'll want
to have the Atlassian or GitHub MCP
server installed. You can use it to
automatically pull issues and tickets
without ever needing to read them
yourself. Just run a prompt that tells
the AI to fix the issue and close the
ticket while you sit on the train
reading your favorite book. That's
awesome. And if you follow this guide,
you'll eventually have a billion-dollar
app that requires more infrastructure to
scale. There are now MCP servers for
AWS, Cloudflare, Verscell, and many
others that can let AI provision the
actual resources you use in the cloud.
In theory, the great thing about robots
is that they won't forget to shut down
an EC2 instance that will destroy your
finances, but don't quote me on that. So
far, all the examples we've looked at
require the trust of a third party
developer. So, you have to trust us.
Just relax and fall. One, two, three.
No.
>> What's cool about this protocol, though,
is that it's essentially standardized
now. And you can use it to build your
own highly specialized server. Like
maybe you want a server that can look up
custom data sources, manage your
smartome, or really anything you can
imagine. And they're easy to build
because there's now an MCP framework for
every major programming language out
there. But after you build one, you'll
need a place to deploy it. And an
awesome platform you need to know about
is Savala, the sponsor of today's video.
It's a modern successor to Heroku that
combines Google Kubernetes Engine with
Cloudflare to give you a simple way to
deploy full stack applications,
databases, and static sites without
drowning in YAML configs. We can easily
ship our app by connecting a Git repo in
the Savala dashboard or by selecting one
of their pre-built templates. Once it's
live, you get app analytics, environment
variables, and everything else you need
to scale your app. You also get real
environment pipelines for preview,
staging, and production, so your team
can promote changes safely instead of
just praying to the prod gods. So try
out Savala for free with $50 in free
credits using the link below. This has
been the Code Report. Thanks for
watching and I will see you in the next